In this lecture we're going to go over the basics of drawing as well as the basic tools you're going
to need to complete this course.
So right here on this page you'll see I have typed.
Fundamentals are not the only thing they're everything.
So what does this mean.
Well this means that it's all about the fundamentals.
People want little tricks people want tools.
They want these shortcuts to become a great artist.
And the thing is there are no shortcuts.
So even if you learn a really cool painting technique if you don't know how to draw.
It's not going to look good at all.
So you need to know how to draw because it's part of the fundamentals.
The first part of drawing that you need to learn is lines.
So right here you'll see I have a bunch of examples but different lines.
So we have straight lines.
We have curved lines we have as signs and we even have swirly lines.
So there's all different types of lines and these are really important.
Now of course lines make everything up lines make shapes up.
They make everything.
But there's even more to lines than that.
So you'll see here in this example lines make up the perspective of this building.
It's all about the direction of the line that creates the perspective.
Here's another example of use of line.
So right here you'll see these lines are trading the motion of this girl.
Now let's say we were drawing this girl before we drew her.
Probably what we would do is sketch out the lines of her motion.
So you'll see here you have the center line which makes up her spine and her neck.
And that's showing the motion of her entire body.
So it's a nice curved line and we have a line here that's making up the shoulders and two lines that
make up the swooshing curves of her arms.
And we even have a line that her eyes follow.
So lines are the fundamentals of drawing.
This is the thing that you really want to get good at.
The next thing is shapes shapes are the next fundamental.
Now there are four basic shapes.
Square circle triangle and trap is a way.
How do we use shapes and drawing.
Well there's a lot of different ways we use them and we'll get way more into that later in the course.
But for now you just need to understand that everything is created out of simple shapes so this girl's
head is a simple shape.
Her body is a simple shape.
The next part of the fundamentals of drawing is the form.
So what is form form is the three dimensional part of drawing.
So right here you'll see I have three examples of of three dimensional shapes.
We have a cube a sphere and a comb.
Now there's all different types of ways that you can convey the different dimensions of a shape.
So with the Cuban the cone it's obviously three dimensional because you can tell by the way the lines
are shaped but with the sphere.
If we just had a sphere drawn without any shadow or light it would just look like a circle.
So the way we can convey the form of our sphere is by drawing these lines that are all over it that
allow us to see where the form of our circle is.
The next fundamental is value.
So value is just how light or how dark something is.
So right here you'll see we have an example of a photograph of a tomato and this tomato has many different
values in it.
In some areas it has of white such as the highlight around the top of it.
And in some areas it's black such as the shadow of the tomato and then other areas have a mid-tone which
would be a middle grade.
Such as the main part of the tomato shadow and highlight will take your form to the next level.
So you'll see here we have our original squares circle and cone but by adding shadow to it it makes
it look much more three dimensional and adds a lot more form to it.
The last fundamental is perspective.
So once you understand all these things the thing that will really create a realistic look for all of
your artwork even if you're only trying to create animations styled artwork it still needs to have correct
perspective.
Perspective is just the lines that make up shapes but it's in a three dimensional world.
And so we'll get way more deep into perspective later in the course.
But for now you just need to understand that perspective makes your images look correct and can also
make them look grounded.
All right.
Now let's go over the basic tools.
You're going to need to complete this course.
So the first thing you're going to need to complete this course is you're going to need paper.
Now the type of paper doesn't really matter at all.
The point of this course is it teach you how to draw.
You should be able to draw on anything from copy paper to really nice Bristol board all the way to a
napkin.
So I really don't want you to focus too much on the materials that you're using but you do need paper.
So I'm going to be using copy paper and sketchbook paper throughout this course.
You can go ahead and buy a sketch book from the store if you want.
And I actually recommend that you do this because you should really be doing one sketch a day and you
should do it all in your sketchbook.
The next thing you're going to need is you're going to need a pencil.
Now you can also use any type of pencil you want.
So if you just want to use a regular writing pencil that's fine if you want to use a drawing pencil
that's completely fine too.
I'm going to be using a drawing pencil and a Prisma colored pencil.
Now a Prisma colored pencil is relatively expensive but it's not too bad.
You can pick up a blue prism a colored pencil for about a dollar or two at the store.
I like drawing with these because animators usually draw with blue colored pencil and so I just really
like the look of drawings that are done with blue colored pencil the next thing you're going to need
is you're going to need an eraser.
You can either use the eraser on your pencil or you can use your own separte razor.
Next you're going to need a ruler.
This is a must.
And you're going to have to have this for this course.
We're going to use this to draw straight lines and use it for perspective.
Really any ruler should do if you want.
You can get an architect's ruler but it doesn't really matter.
Just make sure that you have a ruler.
The next thing you're going to need and this is recommended.
You don't have to get this but like I said you can get a sketchbook.
I have tons of different sketchbooks that are full of all different types of artwork because I'm always
trying to experiment and figure out new styles new ways of doing things and the sketch book is a really
good place to do these experiments so I really highly recommend that you get a sketchbook even if it's
just a really inexpensive one and then draw on it every day.
All right.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture we went over the basics of drawing.
So just remember that drawing is a fundamental and fundamentals are not the only thing they're everything.
What are the fundamentals of drawing.
Well first we have a line then we have shape then we have the form.
Then we have the value shadow and highlights and then we have perspective.
And let's quickly do a review of all the tools you'll need for this course Sirk going to need paper.
Pencil an eraser and a ruler.
And it's recommended that you get a sketchbook.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I really look forward to seeing you in the next one.